# Final_Project
ANALYSIS OF SUGARCANE RAW MATERIAL’S QUALITY THROUGH CLUSTERING TECHNIQUE AND CLASSIFICATION OF SUGAR LEVELS BEFORE MILLING (CASE STUDY OF PT. XYZ SUGAR FACTORY)

The Plantation sub-sector contributed 3.27% to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) as the first in the agricultural sector in 2019. Sugarcane is one of the plantation commodities that has a strategic role in the economy in Indonesia. One of the sugar factories (PG) owned by PT. XYZ, located in East Java, has more than 2000 sugarcane farmers as partners. Analysis of PT. XYZ's BBT quality based on visual test criteria still makes it possible for bias or deviation to occur in the analysis of sugar content. Analyzing the quality of BBT based on the sugar content test is needed to find out how the classification of BBT quality sent by sugarcane farmer partners before entering the milling process. This system can be used as an evaluation of the performance of sugarcane farmers to be able to improve the quality of BBT and profits in the form of profit sharing between sugarcane farmers and the company. Determining the quality of BBT sugar can be overcome by using a data mining approach, namely the Hierarchical K-Means Clustering clustering technique based on the sugar content attribute for 116 milling days in 2020. The results of this final project, the sugar content quality attribute consists of temporary yield, pct brix, and pct pol. The quality of the visual criteria has no correlation with the sugar attribute and proves that there is no bias between the quality of the BBT visual test and the sugar content attribute at PT. XYZ. The number of clusters used is four clusters. Quality A is the best quality because it has the highest average value and data range for each attribute of sugar content, then B, C, and D quality. The order of the best prediction methods tested are Polynomial SVM, RBF SVM, and KNN. SVM performance is better than KNN if there are complex and large data sets of predictor attributes or features. The type of kernel in SVM affects the accuracy results, the kernel makes the attributes or features of the original data projectable to a higher dimension so that the data can be classified properly.

Keywords: Data Mining, Hierarchical K-Means Clustering, K-Nearest Neighbors, Support Vector Machine, Quality Management.
